so you're on vacation
and things go horribly wrong if you're
falling from a cliff
do your best to break your way down to
several parts
the shorter the better each of the
segments will absorb
some impact of the fall and you'll have
a much higher chances of surviving
try to grab onto a sturdy object like a
bush or a rock
on your way to the bottom to slow down
your movement
a piece of wood or a plank can also be
useful it might help you to soften your
fall when you hit the ground
if your pan has caught fire don't take
it outside or try to put the fire out
with water
it'll worsen the situation cover the
flames with a metal lid
this way you'll take away the source of
oxygen your movement
should be fast but smooth and calm
remember to keep the lid between
yourself and the flames
leave it on until the pan has cooled if
a fire is tiny and manageable
you can use salt or baking soda to put
it out
by the way using baking powder flour and
other cooking powders that look like
salt or baking soda is a big no-no
they won't help you because their
chemical makeup is different
if you find yourself in a panic stricken
crowd
your main task is to create some space
around yourself
to do it keep your hands by your chest
your arms bent at the elbow
boxers often use this position to
protect their vital organs
don't cross the crowd's path move
together with it
slowly drifting toward one of its sides
be careful not to block anyone's way
because in this case you can be pushed
to the ground
if you're with your family put the kid
on your shoulders
and let the weaker members of the family
go in front of you
this way you'll be able to control the
movement and won't lose anyone
if someone's attacking you from behind
on the street stomp on their foot
do it with all the strength you have and
aim for the top of the foot
it can damage and even break several
foot bones which will make it difficult
for the attacker to follow you
now if you get locked in a car truck try
to send an sos signal to people outside
to do it look for the tail lights wires
there are usually at least two of them
for each light
find something sharp in the trunk and
cut one of those wires
when you connect the ends again the
lights will flash
if your car breaks suddenly stop
responding ask the passengers if you
have any
to make sure their seat belts are
buckled then turn on the emergency
lights
inform other drivers you're having an
emergency by using your car horn and
long range lights
with strong and abrupt moves press the
brake pedal
that's how you can create pressure in
the braking system
after that down shift carefully and put
the gear shift into the
l position if your car has a mechanical
gearbox
press the clutch pedal after that use
manual brakes but do it
very slowly a sudden movement and your
car will begin to drift
to slow your car down you can also try
to turn left and right
going from one row to another
if you've fallen through ice into
freezing water try to get back to the
edge of the ice
don't pull yourself out by grabbing it
the edge will keep breaking and you'll
exhaust yourself in no time
kick your legs until your body is
positioned horizontally in the water
after that get out of the water and onto
the ice like a seal
once you've made it there don't stand up
remain spread out
this way your weight will be distributed
over a larger area
then the ice will be less likely to
break
the most effective way to help a person
who's choking is to perform the heimlich
maneuver
but what if you choke while you're on
your own well
make a fist with one hand and position
the thumb side
above your navel but below your rib cage
grab this fist with your other hand
and lean over a table edge or chair then
start pressing into the upper part of
your abdomen using
fast upward thrusts repeat them until
the foreign object pops out
or you can stand on your elbows and
knees and then throw your arms forward
really fast
you'll fall flat on the floor with your
arms stretched out in front of you
and your chest and stomach hitting the
ground it'll push the air out of your
lungs and hopefully dislodge the object
stuck in your airway
the whole process is going to be painful
but it can
save your life if you're at sea and spot
a whirlpool coming towards you
don't panic if you understand which way
it's spinning
ride its side and use the whirlpool's
current to catapult you out of danger
if you start fighting it you're likely
to get pulled inside
there's also a chance a whirlpool will
dissolve or become weaker
closer to the bottom so if you do get
trapped by it
take a deep breath and wait for an
opportunity to swim away
and up if you're stuck in a falling
elevator
lie down on your back and try to occupy
as much space as possible
your body fat and muscles are
compressible they'll absorb the impact
force
if you can't lie down opt for sitting
it's still better than standing
your backside will act like an airbag in
a car
but whatever position you take try to
cover your head
the best way to do it is to put one arm
in front of your face
and the other on the back of your neck a
lightning storm might catch you out in
the open
and there will be nowhere to hide kneel
or squat down with your head between
your knees
and your hands covering your ears if
there's a tall object in the area
stay away from it there must be a
distance of at least two
objects heights between you and this
thing other people count too
so if you get caught in the storm with a
group of friends spread out
until it's over if you get trapped under
some debris
for example during an earthquake your
main task is to protect your breathing
organs
plus you have to make your air supply
last as long as possible
take your shirt off and tie its bottom
in a knot then
put it back on your head through the
neck hole the nut should be on the top
of your head
this way you'll get a makeshift hood
that will protect your face from dust
sand and debris
it will also provide you with a bit of
oxygen while you're trying to get back
to the surface
if you see a tornado closing in and you
have no basement in your house
lie down in a bathtub use a pillow to
protect your head from all kinds of
debris that may fall down
experts claim that the plumbing in the
bathroom walls adds structural strength
to this place
but if your bathroom has windows or an
exterior facing wall
opt for a more secure place for example
a closet
the more walls that separate you from
the tornado the better
smoke is the most life-threatening thing
about a house fire
if you find yourself trapped in a
burning building stay
low and crawl toward the nearest exit
the smoke usually rises up to the
ceiling
that's why crouching might help you to
avoid inhaling it
if you have a piece of cloth or a
handkerchief put it against your mouth
it'll act as a filter against the smoke
if you got stuck in quicksand do all you
can to keep your head and arms above the
surface at all times
start to carefully wiggle your legs
quicksand should fill the space they
once occupied
as soon as you can stretch out on your
back it'll increase your surface area
keep making tiny movements until your
legs are free
you can also use backstroke motions with
your arms it'll help pull your legs out
if you've gotten caught in an avalanche
and are being dragged along with a huge
mass of snow
try to stay on top of it to do it make
swimming motions with your whole body as
if you were moving against the river
current
when you feel the avalanche is slowing
down try to raise something over its
surface
it can be your arm leg or a ski pole
this way
rescuers will find you more easily with
the other hand
make a small air pocket in front of your
face try to slow
down your breathing to save as much air
as possible
bottom line if all these things keep
happening to you
over and over you're not very lucky are
you
so please don't invite me along on your
next vacation